("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
(screaming)
(laughs)
- [Narrator] Summer
came to Mattis' forest.
Ronja and Birk tamed
their wild horses
and settled into
a happy routine.
It seems nothing could
disrupt their lives.
Until one day,
an unexpected guest appeared.
- Look at that!
It's Lill-Klippen!
You came!
You found me, I can't
believe you're here!
- Wow, will you look at that?
What a lovely view you've got.
- Yes, on a clear day
you can see everything.
But I can't believe that's what
you came all this way for.
(laughs)
- No, you're right.
Lovis sent me to give you these.
- It's bread!
Smells so good,
my mother's bread,
I've forgotten there was
anything so wonderful.
Birk, here's some for you.
- You see,
she figured that you'd be
running low on food about now.
- But how, how did Lovis know
that you would find us
both in the bear's cave
hiding out?
- Well, your mother is
nobody's fool, is she?
She worked it out and knew
exactly where you'd gone.
Look, Ronja.
Why don't you come home, eh?
- [Ronja] How are things
been at Mattis' Fort
since I left?
- Everything's fine, same
as always, nobody's sad.
Come back home, Ronja.
- Lovis sent you.
It's obvious, I know she did,
and she sent you
to bring me home.
- Oh.
Yes, it's difficult without you.
Ronja, everyone
is waiting for you
to come back to us.
- And Mattis?
- Huh?
- Mattis too, and does
he want me back home?
Be honest.
- Oh, I can't lie!
That beast, it's
impossible to get
inside that man's head!
- Lill-Klippen, does he
talk about me anymore, ever?
Please, Lill-Klippen,
tell me the truth!
Has he never mentioned my name
not even once?
- No, and no one else is allowed
to mention your name
either, he's forbidden it.
But everything will be
alright once you come home,
won't it?
Then it'll be back
to normal, eh?
- Never, and you can
tell that to Mattis!
I'm not his child,
he said so himself,
so, he's not my father!
I want you to tell him that.
I want the whole forest
to hear you shout it!
(cries)
- Oh!
You know I can't
possibly do that, Ronja.
Even Noddle-Pete
wouldn't dare do what
you're asking me to do.
(sobbing)
- [Narrator]
Lill-Klippen told Ronja
all the news from Mattis' Fort.
- [Lill-Klippen] Mattis
is in a tremendous rage
day in, day out.
(yelling)
- Say that again!
(grunting)
- [Lill-Klippen] And
Noddle-Pete has lost his spark.
But with everything all
miserable at the fort,
who can blame him?
Robbery business is
going badly as well.
The whole forest is
teeming with soldiers.
They caught Pelje and put him in
one of the sheriff's dungeons
with nothing but stale
bread and dirty water
to live on.
(gentle flute music)
- [Pelje] Oh!
- Word is that there
are two of Borka's
men in there as well.
They say the sheriff swore that
all the robbers
in Mattis' forest
would be taken captive
and receive their
rightful punishment.
It's terrible.
I wonder what will happen to us.
The sheriff might
string everyone up.
- So, tell me, does he
ever laugh these days?
- Who could you mean then?
The sheriff?
- You know who I mean.
Mattis is who.
- No, he doesn't.
Ever since the day you left
to cross Hell's
Gap to Borka's Keep,
nobody has heard
Mattis laugh once,
he's just angry.
Ronja, come home, yeah?
Come home,
or else your mother would...
- Give my regards to Lovis,
and please thank her a
thousand times for the bread.
- Oh.
I forgot the salt, didn't I?
- Thank you, Lill-Klippen.
- [Birk] I see.
So, you didn't go home
with that dirty devil
to your father.
- No, listen to me,
I have no father!
Birk, you should
really watch what
you're saying to me
or you might well find out
that I no longer have
a brother either!
- Forgive me, sister mine,
if you think I'm
being unfair to you.
But, since we came to live here,
I know what you're
thinking sometimes,
I know you too well.
- Is that so?
Then you should
know at this moment,
I'm thinking that
I've been alive
for 11 winters but
the 12th would be
the death of me.
And actually, I'd very
much like to stay alive
and on this Earth.
Can you understand that?
- You shouldn't
worry about winter.
Not in the middle of summer!
- [Narrator] The summer sun
smiled on Ronja and Birk.
Every day seemed to be
more sweet than the last.
(upbeat guitar music)
(yelling)
- Up I go.
(laughs)
(upbeat guitar music)
Wow!
Look, Birk, we're
the color of summer
and I can't stop smiling.
- Yes.
But, if we drift all the
way down Greedy Falls,
we won't be smiling any longer.
- I have an idea.
Let's see how close to
the falls we can get.
As soon as you see Greedy Hump,
swim like mad.
- Time to jump.
Good thing we both made
it back in one piece.
- Yeah, we made it,
and I can't wait
to do it again!
(loud galloping)
These lovely summer evenings,
perfect for riding,
don't you think?
(gentle flute music)
I wish that it could
be summer all the time
in the forest.
Why does winter always come
and then spoil everything?
- Sister mine,
what are you thinking?
- Oh, I was just
thinking that...
How there must be murk trolls
living under that enormous rock.
There, past that grove.
When I first ran away
to live in the forest,
I saw them dancing
there on that rock.
I like murk trolls and rumphops,
but not gray dwarves,
and not those horrible,
hateful wild harpies,
I really don't like them.
- And who would like them?
- I've noticed the nights
are getting darker earlier.
The stars are saying to us,
"Soon it will be autumn."
- Ronja.
(laughs)
- They say harpies are
even scarier in the Autumn,
hungry and nasty.
- Yeah, I know, but I think
we'll be left in peace here
because they don't know
about the bear's cave.
- Really, you
think it's possible
that the gray dwarves
kept quiet for once?
- They must have,
otherwise the harpies
would've come a long time ago.
- Let's stop it.
It's not good to
talk about them,
we might bring them here.
Don't even think about them.
(laughing)
(screeching)
- Lovely little
humans in the water.
Come sisters.
Now there will be clawing,
now the blood will run!
- Ronja, dive!
(dramatic music)
- [Harpie] Where is the
lovely human with black hair?
(cawing)
Where is the lovely
human with red hair?
(cawing)
Now, come on out.
(screeching)
- Birk!
Birk, where are you, Birk?
Where are you?
- [Harpie] There, the lovely
human with black hair!
(dramatic music)
(screeching)
- No need to hurry.
Frighten them some more before
we strike our claws into them.
Torment them some more
before we tear them apart!
- [Birk] Ronja!
- Birk!
- [Birk] Over here!
- Birk, where are you?
- I'm here!
Come, come on!
- Birk!
- [Harpie] Where is the
lovely human with red hair?
(screeching)
(dramatic music)
Where is the lovely
human with black hair?
(screeching)
- Birk,
I thought, afraid, I
thought I'd lost you,
I thought you jumped.
- Not yet.
But maybe soon, I will.
- [Harpie] Where have the
lovely little humans gone?
Ah, now the blood will run.
- [Narrator] They
couldn't hear one another
over the roar of the falls.
"Sister mine."
"Brother mine."
Although neither of them
could hear a word,
they spoke to each other.
They said what must be said
before it was too late,
how good it was to
love someone so much,
there was no need to fear
even the most difficult thing.
Next time on Ronja,
the Robber's Daughter.
(upbeat music)
"Only This Summer".
Don't miss it.
(gentle playful music)